Previously on Debris...
I’m going to miss you
when you’re gone, Bryan.
BRYAN:
Cease fire! Cease fire!
FINOLA:
I know about Asalah.
(cries out)
MADDOX: I don’t know
why this happened to you.
I just know that I don’t
want it to happen again.
-(buzzer sounds)
-GEORGE: INFLUX.
They are actively seeking
a very dangerous piece
of Debris.
They believed that I was
the only one that can find it.
BRYAN:
What does it do?
GEORGE:
I don’t quite remember.
Ferris just sent me
the Laghari files.
BRYAN:
That memory.
Why?
FINOLA:
I think all the Debris
may be connected.
They chose you for a reason.
-(device beeps)
-KELSO: No.
-(beep)
-No.
-Twenty-four... Hang on.
Uh, four-five, two-twenty-two.
And that was it.
Oh, man,
I’m losing my mind here.
Uh, give me a call back
when you get the  authorization.
(phone beeps)
(clattering in distance)
What the heck are you...
doing over here?
(device whirring)
(alarm sounding)
Kelso! Kelso!
(alarm continues)
(plastic clattering)
(powering down)
* (theme)
(crows cawing)
Yes, yes, I come in peace.
(door opens)
(George coughing)
-(switch clicks)
-(beep)
(generator powering up)
(typing)
(computer beeps)
(horn honks in distance)
-BRYAN: Hey, George.
-FINOLA: Hey, Dad.
GEORGE:
Hey.
What is this place?
GEORGE: It was used
to transmit news reports
to the Allied nations
during World War Two.
-BRYAN: Voice of America?
-GEORGE: Yes, yes.
And also shortwave radio
communication with spies,
and now its signal boosting
capabilities or servers, well--
Dad, I got you some new clothes.
Oh, I don’t need them.
It’s, uh, more for us, really.
Oh, well, um, is that for me?
Yes.
-Laghari’s files are on here.
-Complete?
Yeah. That’s what Ferris said.
That’s a lot on there.
It’s gonna take you
a while to get through--
No, no, no.
I know what I need.
These boxes need to go inside,
George?
Yes. Yes, please.
I need them all.
Driving across the country
by yourself wasn’t
the smartest thing to do.
There are people looking
for you.
I know, I know.
I’m perfectly capable
of protecting myself.
-Besides, I had to.
-Why?
It came to me at Garcia’s.
I remember what it does,
the piece
that we’re looking for.
See, INFLUX believes that
it can create a kind of map,
showing the location
of all the Debris,
every piece
on the face of the earth.
This is what
I’ve been telling you.
The race for Debris
and the power that it holds,
and it could end here,
if INFLUX gets this piece first.
It’s a good thing I know
what I’m talking about, hmm?
What I’m going to do is hack
into the satellites
operated by the European Space
Agency’s so-called Swarm--
the Earth Observation System--
and reconfigure them
to collect the data I need.
See, the piece of Debris
that we’re looking for could
be anywhere in North America,
but I need to acquire the
high-altitude satellite data,
if I have any chance
of finding it.
FINOLA:
And can the Swarm
satellites even detect it?
When INFLUX was forcing me
to make the scanner,
they told me that the signal
they’re looking for
is as a result
of a unique interaction
between the piece
and, uh, magnetic fields,
and that Swarm can detect.
So if you recalibrate
the Swarm,
then you can find the anomalies
in the Earth’s magnetic field?
Exactly.
I’m following you, George.
So then why are Dr. Laghari’s
files important?
They’re a road map for me,
you see.
Before I brought
Dr. Laghari into Orbital,
he spent years working
on calculations
to interpret magnetic
field data.
Mathematical calculations
that I can’t remember.
But with this, I’ll be able
to determine exactly
where the piece will warp
the magnetic field.
I’m going to get
the rest of the boxes.
I’ll be back in a minute.
(typing)
(computer beeping)
Dad, I think it’s really great
that you’re remembering well
now.
I just need to know
when you remember.
We need to know if you remember
why Maddox wants you dead.
Well, I have been thinking
about that, and...
maybe it’s because he fears
what he can’t control.
What do you mean,
he fears what he can’t control?
He works for government.
That’s what governments do.
Even our own,
the subjugation of India,
the colonization, I mean,
right here in the U.S.,
the massacre at Wounded Knee,
the Japanese internment camps.
I mean, do I need to go on?
Governments are created
to serve the public interest.
And everywhere, inevitably,
they serve their own,
and people are left to suffer.
Please, sweetheart,
be careful with this
so-called coalition.
I know.
I believe in Bryan,
but Orbital...
doesn’t feel like
a coalition at all.
(chuckles)
Smart girl.
-(door opens)
-Hey, we got to go.
-What’s wrong?
-Tom called.
There’s been a Debris incident
back at Orbital.
Lost power, and the entire
facility had to be evacuated.
There’s still eight technicians
unaccounted for in the hangar
area.
-How many pieces are affected?
-We don’t know yet.
Got CCTV of what happened
before the alarms went off.
Debris went right
through the wall,
connected with the ship.
-That wall’s
the lockup warehouse?
-TOM: Yeah.
So the power went down
soon afterward,
so all the footage we tried
getting from there is black.
Any theories?
MADDOX:
We think INFLUX is doing
something with Debris.
If what you suggest is true,
that the Debris is all
connected,
then whatever they’re doing
could have triggered this
from literally anywhere
on earth.
Has anyone been inside?
Chin has a team standing by.
BRYAN:
Let’s suit up.
CHIN:
Chin for Bryan, come in.
BRYAN:
Go for Bryan.
CHIN:
Be advised Corridor C is clear.
BRYAN:
Copy that. We’re entering
Corridor D, over.
BRYAN:
Hey.
Looks like they’re in some
sort of trance-like state.
Base Camp, we’ve located five
of the missing techs. Stand by.
(device scanning)
BRYAN:
Clocking in at a 230.
Yeah.
(slamming in distance)
BRYAN:
Let’s spread out.
Got one deceased male,
massive head trauma.
FINOLA:
Straight through.
CHIN:
Bryan, we’ve got something.
-Hey, check this out.
-BRYAN: Huh.
FINOLA:
Bryan, what’s this?
BRYAN:
Hey, what are you guys doing?
Hold on a second.
Hey, hold on a second.
What were you doing?
Do you know where you are?
Zimmer?
Zimmer, can you hear me?
Hello? What were you doing here?
-They’re all under
the same influence.
-FINOLA: Yeah.
Let’s get them with the others,
keep them out of here.
We’re gonna move you out
of here. Do you understand?
MAN:
Got it.
FINOLA:
Bryan, look at this.
The cases, they’re all crushed.
BRYAN:
Well, where’s the Debris
that was in them?
Whoa.
-What happened?
-Careful! Careful.
Stay on the other side.
It looks like it just passed
through
some sort of invisible pocket
right here.
The Debris is being ripped out
as it passes through
from the inside
and then spat out over here.
FINOLA:
Is that why
they’re lining them up
and putting them there?
They’re selecting Debris
for a reason.
Hold on.
Remember what we saw in Ohio.
Entire dimensions can exist
within a 2-D square.
But these are passing
through it.
But without the Debris.
Where’d it go?
(chatter, indistinct)
-MADDOX: Any changes?
-BRYAN: So far they’re
unresponsive.
Where’s the Debris going?
We think it’s some sort of
pocket dimension.
Is it connected to what happened
in the hangar?
-You think that’s what
initiated it?
-It was first.
The situation team
is setting up the N-U’s
to try and stop everything
from progressing any further.
How’s Zimmer doing?
MEDIC:
Temp is 98.2.
Pulse 82, normal.
Whoa. There is a strong
gravitational pull coming
from inside.
What do you think is happening?
I don’t know.
The Debris pieces
aren’t going anywhere.
It’s possible they’re being
contained inside the Seam.
It’s large enough to create
a detectable gravitational pull.
CHIN:
It seems to be taking
one piece at a time.
-Is it assembling it something?
-I don’t know.
CHIN:
Well, let’s hope the N-U’s will
neutralize whatever’s in there.
-Dialed in.
-All right.
Let’s shut it down, guys.
-FINOLA: It’s not working.
-CHIN: Trying to recalibrate.
(groaning)
It’s okay, lay back.
Hey, what’s happening?
Calm down.
MEDIC: He’s tachycardic.
He could stroke out
or have an MI.
-Calm down. Why?
-I don’t know!
-Why? Hey!
I’ve dumped 15 CCs of sedative
into him, and it’s done nothing.
BRYAN:
Breathe right now.
I need you to relax.
Bryan! Bryan!
-Zimmer!
-Bryan!
Hey, hey, hey!
Hold him, hold him,
hold him, hey.
Let him go, let him go,
let him go.
Let them go.
Go with him, go with him.
-What?
-CHIN: Maybe there’s too
many different pieces.
With all the different
signatures in there,
it can’t zero in.
That’s a really good idea.
Mark, I need you to inventory
all the empty cases.
I want to know which pieces
are being pulled into the Seam,
and then we can crosscheck
with the case report.
And that way, we can figure out
if there’s anything that might
connect them.
-That does sound about right.
-Careful.
FINOLA:
Bryan.
Bryan, what are you doing?
I need your help. Come on.
Let’s secure this room.
Lock the doors.
They must be bound by proximity
to this thing somehow.
-Yeah. Makes no sense.
-No.
Hey, the N-U’s,
they didn’t work.
I’m gonna go check the ship.
Okay.
(computer beeps)
(tapping)
(beeps)
GEORGE:
Oh, come on.
Hello.
-CHIN: Agent Jones?
-FINOLA: Yeah.
CHIN: We’ve cataloged every
piece that’s been pulled
into the Seam so far.
Some of the pieces involved
manipulation of thermodynamics,
others affected botanical
gene expression and acoustical
distortion.
But it seems they aren’t being
used for any of those functions.
There’s no commonalities
between any of them.
Wildly varying sizes,
textures,
Laghari signatures
all over the map.
I don’t understand.
These Debris pieces were brought
together for a reason.
Maybe we should try and get
these cases out of here.
The Seam can’t take
what’s not here.
All right, let’s do it.
Grab the other side.
(grunts)
Whoa! Lester! Lester! Hey!
Hey! Hey! Can you hear me?
Now take it up slowly.
Oh my goodness, what happened?
Are you okay?
Lester, hey!
Oh, my goodness.
Whoa! Whoa! Hey!
No, Lester!
Hey.
Lester, where are you going?
BRYAN:
Why do you think
the affected techs
can touch the cases
but Chin couldn’t?
I don’t know.
Because they’re a part of it?
What did you find with the ship
in the hangar?
I didn’t find anything.
It’s the same as it’s been.
There’s no excess
Laghari signatures.
So if the event started there,
it’s not there anymore.
What if it’s building something
inside the Seam to destroy us?
I’m not sure that we
can get out of this, Bryan.
BRYAN:
Oh, we’re going
to figure it out.
I can’t comprehend what
is going on in there.
We’re not meant to.
We thought we were in control,
but maybe we need to acknowledge
that we are in the presence
of something bigger and stronger
than us.
And impossibly unknowable.
It’s just moving so fast.
Hey! What is wrong with him?
Arturo! Look at me! Chin up!
He’s dead.
FINOLA: How long before
the same thing happens
to the rest of them?
Nice.
There you go.
(electricity hums)
(power surging)
(phone rings)
The signatures of the pieces
that it’s selecting,
what can you tell me about them?
It’s random signatures--
933,
467, 311, 233.
That’s not random.
That’s a series of ratios;
a half, a third, a quarter.
It’s a harmonic sequence.
Oh, God. Yes, yes, yes.
(chuckles)
Of course.
Finola, prolonged exposure
to Laghari harmonics
can cause catastrophic
brain damage.
That would explain
what happened to Zimmer.
Right.
The Seam.
You have to focus on that.
It could widen.
It could swallow up
everything in its path.
It could emit a kinetic pulse
that can throw the earth
off its axis.
The N-U’s,
they weren’t effective?
No. They weren’t effective
at all.
All right, the N-U’s were
designed to contain Debris
emissions.
If you reverse the polarity,
that could create
an energy fence.
So like, um,
protective force field
to stop the new pieces
from passing through?
Yes. Exactly.
That could interrupt
and suspend the process.
At least I’ll give you
some time to
try to figure out how
to stop this thing.
-Right.
-Just go back
and see if reversing
the polarity works,
-all right?
-Okay.
And Finola, be careful.
(phone beeps)
(beeping)
Wait, what’s that noise?
It started just
a few minutes ago
after the last case
got sucked in.
Whatever the Seam is doing,
it’s getting near completion.
You have any ideas?
FINOLA: Yeah. I’m not sure
it’s going to work,
but it is worth a try.
We need to reverse
the polarity on the N-U’s
to stop any more new pieces
from entering.
That would externalize
the energy field.
The whole point of the N-U’s
is containment.
Yes. But we have to stop
the rest of those cases
from joining whatever
is being assembled.
This might be our best chance.
(plastic case clattering)
Yeah.
I’m zeroed in.
We’re stable.
Okay. Great. Shut it down?
Prepare to recalibrate.
Recalibrating now.
Reversing polarity,
powering up again.
(energy humming)
Oh. Good job.
Three-eleven.
Second harmonic ratio.
-What was that?
-What is it?
There’s a second
Laghari reading-- 467.
-Finola--
-There’s something
happening below us.
Security is disabled.
It should be open.
(device scanning)
FINOLA:
What is this place?
BRYAN:
Never been down here.
(device scanning)
BRYAN:
Wow.
Looks like there was some
sort of an explosion here.
FINOLA:
Oh, there it is.
Wow.
This is interesting.
These are schematics.
They’re turning out
a bomb using Debris.
This is a weapons lab.
Orbital is weaponizing
the Debris.
BRYAN:
I’m not surprised.
They were gonna do it
eventually.
FINOLA:
So this experiment--
BRYAN:
It might have triggered
the event.
Did Maddox know about this
and then just say it was INFLUX?
Bryan. Oh my God.
What?
This is my father’s notes.
They are engineering
all of these weapons
using my father’s work!
I’m must ask you this.
To your theory about INFLUX
being responsible
for all of this,
what part did you play?
Because I know
what you’re doing.
You’ve been to the lab
on the sub floor.
Is this why you’re here?
Because you’re worried
that we would find it?
’Cause you know what?
From what I saw,
it could have triggered
this whole event.
Finola, no one in our classified
division has been doing any
testing,
so no, we are not
responsible for it.
But you are weaponizing
the Debris.
To deter potential adversaries
from attacking the United
States,
from attacking our allies,
from attacking our vital
interests.
The Chinese are doing it,
the Russians are doing it.
And you know what?
The Brits are doing it.
Did my father know that you were
using his work for this?
No, he didn’t.
Not at first.
But he did find out.
And what did he feel about it?
Pretty much the same way you do.
Finola, I know how personal
this is for you,
but you have to understand
men like your father,
they’re like pieces
of Debris themselves,
useful in the right hands,
dangerous in the wrong hands.
Orbital had no choice but
to follow this direction,
because if we didn’t do it,
someone else would have done it.
In fact, Finola,
someone else did do it.
It’s exactly what INFLUX
has been doing with your father,
so I know you know how vital
it is that we find him.
I know you feel that way.
You don’t know anything
about what I feel.
My father took his life
for all of this.
(gasping)
(grunts)
HAZMAT #3:
Cain. Cain!
Hey, hey, hey, hey, look!
Stop! Just stop!
(straining)
Bryan! Bryan, they’re leaving
the boardroom!
We can’t hold them back.
They’re trying to get back
to the lockup.
I’m almost there.
FINOLA:
Bryan, I’m on my way back.
Hey! We need some help.
Hey, hey, get him, get him.
-BRYAN: Hey, hey!
-FINOLA: Hey, hey, hey!
I got him.
-BRYAN: Hey, hey! Hey!
-FINOLA: Hey! Stop!
They’re after the N-U’s.
Chin! Chin! Get up! Hey!
Let’s get these guys back
to the boardroom right now.
FINOLA:
What have we got?
APRIL HAN:
The leakage from their ears
is cerebral spinal fluid,
must have been massive
intracranial pressure.
DOCTOR #2:
There was necrotic cell death,
like the cells
literally exploded.
What could cause that?
Chemical agents
or ultrasound or--
Harmonic frequencies
in the Laghari spectrum?
Yes, that’s possible.
No.
(latches slam)
-(electricity surging)
-(gasps)
(Mariel whispering, indistinct)
TOGETHER:
Why?
(page turning in distance)
(Ash whistles)
Morrison.
GUARD:
What do you want, Ash?
I’m sick.
I need to see a doctor.
GUARD:
Open 108.
(buzzer sounds)
Out.
What the hell?
We need to get him
to an emergency room.
He’s got something inside him.
Told you I was sick.
(neck cracks)
That’s it.
Let’s get the keys
for these cuffs
out of this belt, shall we?
Need to get in there.
Six-eight-six-eight-zero-eight.
-(buzzer sounds)
-Go on.
APRIL HAN:
Let’s try a new CSX sample,
expose it to Laghari waves,
-try to replicate the effect.
-WOMAN: Yes, Doctor.
Okay. When you’re done here,
let me know.
I’ll take it to the boardroom,
where we’re keeping the techs.
Hey.
What’s wrong?
I saw Mariel Caldwell.
What are you talking about?
The Debris manifested her
for me.
-What?
-She appeared.
Yeah.
Remember when I told you
in my memory
she came to me
and I asked her why?
Why she needed me to relive
that memory in Afghanistan?
And I put my hand out,
but you-- you pulled me back
before I could grab it.
She did it again.
But this time...
I touched her.
And in that moment,
I understood everything,
without a single word
being spoken.
What did you understand?
I understood
it wanted to comprehend
my need to protect people.
Why would it do that?
I don’t know.
It sought me out.
And we need to let the Seam
complete what it’s doing.
Okay. Listen, I think
we should take you outside
-and just get you checked out.
-I know what I’m saying.
I know how I must sound
right now,
but if we interfere
with this process,
we are going to kill people.
We’re not gonna be able
to save them.
I can feel it.
What happened to the man
who said we need to sacrifice
the few to save the many?
This isn’t you.
I know.
But this is what it’s asking
of us right now.
I can’t describe it any better.
Not so long ago, you told me
that you were not scared
of the Debris,
that you thought could change
the world.
I thought you were crazy.
But now I understand it.
And that’s faith, right?
Yeah.
That’s what you’ve been
telling me all about,
trust in something that
you cannot know for certain.
But we don’t know
what it’s building.
We don’t know.
You’re afraid...
and that’s not you.
I’m asking you
to believe again.
For the first time, I do.
Take that defibrillator
to the middle of the room.
Hurry, hurry.
Come on. Chop chop.
Hurry, hurry, hurry.
Next to this one, closer.
A little bit closer.
That’s perfect.
Now go and get that wheelchair.
Hurry!
Power these up.
-This is going to kill you.
-Either do it to me,
or I’ll do it to you.
All the way up.
Full power.
That one too.
(power increasing)
(power surges)
-(horn honks)
-(glass shatters)
(groans)
(neck cracks)
Can I trouble you
for your car keys?
(whirring, beeping)
Shut it down.
You sure?
(machine beeps)
(powering down)
(case clattering)
That was the last one.
No, I don’t think so.
The Debris that we found
downstairs
did not initiate this.
It’s a piece of the Seam.
it’s trying to get--
-Go get me a Nacho.
-Copy that.
(whispers)
We’re ready.
Copy.
Do it.
It’s the ball of light.
GEORGE: And the techs were
released as soon as it left?
FINOLA:
Yes. It’s like
nothing happened.
GEORGE:
That’s utterly amazing.
FINOLA: It was the most
beautiful thing I’ve ever seen,
but it’s just so unsettling not
knowing what happened to it.
Dad, are you listening to me?
I found it.
The piece that we’re looking
for, I’ve found it.
It’s in Virginia.
(line ringing)
MADDOX (on phone):
Yeah.
Are you ready?
Is the rest of it here?
It’s in the state,
a remote location.
It just got here,
we can do it tomorrow.
Okay.
Let me know when.
I will.
(hands rubbing)
-You’re early.
-Turn on the heat.
A burger, a taco,
and a milkshake.
Anything with fats,
meat, and oil.
(ringtone chimes)
(chuckles)
Otto says George Jones
has identified
the location of the piece.
Man’s a genius.
WOMAN: We’ve put him
in a barometric chamber.
(beep)
He keeps repeating himself.
He keeps saying the word
"telesphere" over and over.
(beep)
What is that?
-MAN: I don’t know.
-(beep)